---
layout: blog
Title: Grammar
Tag : grammar
---
# Verify the new way of saying things
1. If you drink too many vodka martinis, you will surely get sick. 
RIGHT. The puristic objection is that get has only one meaning-namely, obtain. However, as any modem dictionary will attest, get has scores of different meanings, one of the most respectable of which is become. You can get tired, get dizzy, get drunk, 
Qr get sick--and your choice of words will offend no one but a 
pedant. 

2. Have you got a dollar? 
RIGHT. If purists get a little pale at the sound of "get sick," 
they turn chalk wliite when they hear have got as a substitute for 
have. But the fact is that have got is an established American 
form of expression. Jacques Barzun, noted author and literary 
critic, says: "Have you got is good idiomatic English-I use it in 
speech without thinking about it and would write it if colloquialism seemed appropriate to the passage." 
3. No ones loves you except I. 
WRONG. In educated speech, me follows the preposition except. This problem is troublesome because, to the unsophisticated, 
the sentence sounds as if it can be completed to "No one loves 
you, except I do," but current educated usage adheres to the technical rule that a preposition requires an objective pronoun (me). 
4. Please lay down. 
WRONG. Liberal as grammar has become, there is still no 
sanction for using lay with the meaning of recline. Lay means to 
place, as in "Lay your hand on mine." Lie is the correct choice. 
5. Who do you love? 
RIGHT. "The English language shows some disposition to get 
rid of whom altogether, and unquestionably it would be a better 
language with whom gone." So wrote Janet Rankin Aiken, of Columbia University, way back in 1936. Today, many decades later, 
the "disposition" has become a full-fledged force. 
The rules for who and whom are complicated, and few educated speakers have the time, patience, or expertise to bother with 
them. Use the democratic who in your everyday speech whenever 
it sounds right. 
6. Neither of these cars are worth the money. 
WRONG. The temptation to use are in this sentence is, I admit, 
practically irresistible. However, "neither of" means "neither one 
or• and is, therefore, is the preferable verb. 
7. The judge sentenced the murderer to be hung. 
WRONG. A distinction is made, in educated speech, between 
hung and hanged. A picture is hung, but a person is hanged-that 
is, if such action is intended to bring about an untimely .demise. 
8. Mother, can I go out to play? 
RIGHT. If you insist that your child say may, and nothing but 
may; when asking for permission, you may be considered puristic. 
Can is not discourteous, incorrect, or vulgar-and the newest editions of the authoritative dictionaries fully sanction the use of can 
in requesting rights, privileges, or permission. 
9. Take two spoonsful of this medicine every three hours. 
WRONG. There is a strange affection, on the part of some people, for spoomful and cupsful, even though spoonsful and cupsful 
do not exist as acceptable words. The plurals are spoonfuls and 
cupfuls. 
I am taking for granted, of course, that you are using one spoon 
and fiUing it twice. If, for secret reasons of your own, you prefer 
to take your medicine in two separate spoons, you may then properly speak of "two spoons full (not spoonsful) of medicine." 
10. Your words seem to infer that Jack is a Jiar. 
WRONG. Infer does not mean hint or suggest. Imply is the 
proper word; to infer is to draw a conclusion from another's 
words. 
11. I will be happy to go to the concert with you. 
RIGHT. In informal speech, you need no longer worry about 
the technical and unrealistic distinctions between shall and will. 
The theory of modern grammarians is that shall-will differences 
were simply invented out of whole cloth by the textbook writers of 
the 1800s. As the editor of the scholarly Modern Language 
Forum at the University of California has stated, "The artificial 
distinction between shall and will to designate futurity is a superstition that has neither a basis in historical grammar nor the sound 
sanction of universal usage." 
12. It is me. 
RIGHT. This "violation" of grammatical "law" has been completely sanctioned by current usage. When the late Winston 
Churchill made a nationwide radio address from New Haven, 
Connecticut, many, many years ago, his opening sentence was: 
"This is me, Winston Churchill." I imagine that the purists who 
were listening fell into a deep state of shock at these words, but of 
i:purse Churchill was simply using the kind of down-to~earth English that had long since become standard in informal educated 
speech. 
79 
13. Go slow. 
" :"-' 
RIGHT. "Go slow" is not, and never has been, incorrect 
English-every authority concedes that slow is an adverb as well 
as an adjective. Rex Stout, well-known writer of mystery novels 
and creator of ·Detective Nero Wolfe, remarked: "Not only do I 
use and approve of the idiom Go slow, but if I find myself with 
people who do not, I feave quick." 
14. Peggy and Karen are alumni of the same high school. 
WRONG. As Peggy and Karen are obviously women, we call 
them alumnae ( ~-LUM'-nee); only male graduates are alumni 
(~-LUM'-ni). 
15. I would like to ask you a question. 
RIGHT. In current American usage, would may be used with l, 
though old-fashioned rules demand l should. 
Indeed, in modem speech, should is almost entirely restricted to 
expressing probability, duty, or responsibility. 
As in the case of the charitable-looking dowager who was 
approached by a seedy character seeking a handout. 
"Madam," he whined, "I haven't eaten in five days." 
"My good man," the matron answered with great concern, "you 
should force yourself!" 